{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helv;}{\f2\fswiss Helv;}{\f3\froman\fcharset0 Tms Rmn;}{\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f6\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red47\green47\blue47;\red64\green64\blue194;\red0\green32\blue31;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2509;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sl240\slmult1\lang9\f0\fs24\par
\cf1\f1\fs20{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.facebook.com/notes/rapid-programming-j128/interview-experiences-campus-2016/912646888808595" }}{\fldrslt{\cf3\b\f0\fs24 Interview Experiences - Campus 2016\f0 }}}\cf1\b0\f2\fs20\par
\par
\b\f0\fs24 Amazon - 5 rounds (all elimination)\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
Online Round:\f3\~\f0 (90 Minutes)\par
\b0 1.) 20 MCQs.\par
2.) 2 Coding questions. Platform \endash  HackerRank.\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\sl240\slmult1 Maximum of all subarrays of size k\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\f3\~\f0  E.g. Input: a = \{1, 2, 3, 1, 4, 5, 2, 3, 6 \}, k=3\par
\f3\~\f0  \f3\~\f0  \f3\~\f0  \f3\~\f0  \f3\~\f0  \f3\~\f0  Output 3 3 4 5 5 5 6\par
Soln.\f3\~{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.facebook.com/groups/knuth.j128/#" }}{\fldrslt{\cf0\f0 http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/maximum-of-all-subarrays-of-size-k/\f0 }}}\cf1\f0\fs24\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\sl240\slmult1 Merge two sorted linked lists without creating a new node\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\f3\~\f0  E.g. Input L1: 5->10->15, L2: 2->3->20\par
\f3\~\f0  \f3\~\f0  \f3\~\f0  \f3\~\f0  \f3\~\f0  \f3\~\f0  \f3\~\f0 Output L: 2->3->5->10->15->20\par
Soln.\f3\~{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.facebook.com/groups/knuth.j128/#" HYPERLINK "http://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.geeksforgeeks.org%2Fmerge-two-sorted-linked-lists%2F&h=dAQFODEz5&enc=AZNJhxvQwly9oEqrcIjniEQF0hM_OG2IxRDx3hS1BXc3CyModeS-gYzODAyXs03-Gd2NoqvmqrGRhkBbO7Tjw3JAFGbGNXbqH-5YCu12lST_YtLhRvZsOjvQFG7XxYMKbH2mnDEf0OCGkS4HVf-RdPrhzIk2VPjTkn50B-hibdLoiRVM79wGPO6tMgNdWzyf-fU&s=1" }}{\fldrslt{\cf4\f0 http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/merge-two-sorted-linked-lists/\f0 }}}\cf1\f0\fs24\par
\par
30 Students were short-listed after this round.\par
4 F2F Technical Interviews were scheduled after this where each of them was an elimination round.\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b Technical Round 1: (40-45 minutes)\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b0 This was one of the best interview experiences I\rquote ve ever had. I was the first person to be interviewed by her and I told her during the introduction that I am slightly nervous because I am amongst the first lot to be interviewed. She was very nice and comforted me so that I could relax by saying that we are just going to have a brainstorming session. \f3\~\f0\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\sl240\slmult1 Crack the given pattern:\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 1\par
11\par
21\par
1211\par
111221\par
312211\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 Soln: Try to think it yourself first. I was clueless even after 5-7 minutes, meanwhile she was going through my resume. I felt that I\rquote m going to screw this up. Then she asked me to tell her what I\rquote m thinking and I told her that I\rquote m trying to see if there are any mirror images of any no or not, and also that the lengths are changing abruptly and are not following any order. She gave me a hint and said tell me what do you see in this no, just speak it and then try to follow what is there in the previous no and whether I can see any connection or not. I immediately got the pattern and told her the same. She asked me to code it for a given \lquote n\rquote , where I have to print the first n no\rquote s. I coded it and she asked me to explain it and then she further asked me what if I told you to use recursion. I told her that I will remove the stack of the integer pair which I have used because recursion itself uses a stack. She then asked what will be the base case for the recursion to end and I told her until the no becomes 0 and she was satisfied.\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\sl240\slmult1 What is level order traversal of a tree? Which data structure is used?\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\f3{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.facebook.com/groups/knuth.j128/#" HYPERLINK "http://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.geeksforgeeks.org%2Flevel-order-tree-traversal%2F&h=uAQF1yfZj&enc=AZNRu0HwYnhltXzMQutpwMsYyGlsTEpgbcMS1uY0I1M5w7Z72RWfidD13fuXzUzKaxTW89VyCwcqgdQphMoUYNso64vha7I9TrjkUM3C9XlRCxESMXjOJt6cZAo5sxqDqJ7T0mKNT48jMqjFq6Tjc8f02oXYnIP9MAVNLFySIixcPGslyrp0Y93ZROQx-0uNKzQ&s=1" }}{\fldrslt{\cf4\f0 http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/level-order-tree-traversal/\f0 }}}\cf1\f0\fs24\par
\f3{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.facebook.com/groups/knuth.j128/#" }}{\fldrslt{}}}\f0\fs24\par
Then she asked me to print a newline after every level. I gave her many solutions and she was very happy with my responses, she even told me that I have explained some approaches which she hasn\rquote t heard of. Still I wasn\rquote t quite there to the answer which she had in mind and told me to look for it after the interview. Instantly at that point the approach clicked to me and I told her the same and she was satisfied. The solution uses O(h) space but only a single queue where h is the height of the tree, though I had already given her a solution using O(1) constant space (but it used two queues).\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\sl240\slmult1 Project discussion for merely 5 minutes.\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\line\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b Technical Round 2: (40-45 minutes)\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\sl240\slmult1\b0 Discussion of 2 projects: I told him everything with a lot of enthusiasm, as to why I did this project and how it was carried out. He then asked me if it was a group project then what was your role in it. I had explained him one of the projects on paper and he finally asked me the no of lines in the final code .\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\sl240\slmult1 Given two strings A and B, remove all characters in A which are present in B. For example, A=amazon and B=bangalore, output should be A=mz. He said to do all the shifts in place (in A only) and not use any extra space.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 Soln: I told him that we can create a hashtable of string B and then shift all the characters accordingly in A. He asked how will you perform shifting and what will be the complexity. I first told him we can mark the character in A which is there in B with a specific character of our choice and then perform all the shifts in O(n). He said what if both the strings consist of any of the 256 characters, I told him then my approach will fail. Then I gave him an O(n^2) solution for shifting using a counter variable which counts the no of shifts which have occurred up-to to a specific character in string A and he asked me to code it. While coding it I realized that shifts can be done in O(1) with the use of the counter and we actually don\rquote t need to do the shifting one by one which finally reduced the complexity to O(n). He said good and was satisfied then.\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\sl240\slmult1 Given a string S and a list of strings L, find all the anagrams of S in L.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\f3{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.facebook.com/groups/knuth.j128/#" HYPERLINK "http://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.geeksforgeeks.org%2Fgiven-a-sequence-of-words-print-all-anagrams-together%2F&h=uAQF1yfZj&enc=AZMyg9XowvDjDTeL01cPSx-S7xb1AVCoZMs1vlA0U3I7-3-qVPAw6evdJeUZoX3K7bFUThCs1jttEaQP3CrelTVEtKYkqCuDcMclymagulia0jIvVdbTpQcizH-GRwumk-ZaaBHHMfRhheNyBdNwywttSIJFvB42oosT_EtQZQRHjBdRmbZN-4GNfslQkxfbBik&s=1" }}{\fldrslt{\cf4\f0 http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/given-a-sequence-of-words-print-all-anagrams-together/\f0 }}}\cf1\f0\fs24\par
\f3{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.facebook.com/groups/knuth.j128/#" HYPERLINK "http://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.geeksforgeeks.org%2Fgiven-a-sequence-of-words-print-all-anagrams-together-set-2%2F&h=WAQFsqzFE&enc=AZMq69kA2ADBpVS1kZ-G2V8jnfWs0vjrHZMcymsrXbfxm8EC-hG9_ZDTAf7_VswaHNuPFFvqZ3xVi1baqmGJmhK7wwvn3VVf9Z-Za1rVjGnjliwypIn9lazsv0ZjldwMEeVqq0ouuMIC7GIBjKg_yyjw0-Ppwjpwz5nCAOqf2VoXJtIc3ce1INHyIOpRKYvzBuE&s=1" }}{\fldrslt{\cf4\f0 http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/given-a-sequence-of-words-print-all-anagrams-together-set-2/\f0 }}}\cf1\f0\fs24\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 Soln: I told him to first create a hashtable of all the strings in L and then match all hash values of all the strings with the given string. Then he asked me what preprocessing can you do to further optimize it. He said think of sorting the strings. Then I gave him the trie solution and told him what if I create a trie of the hash table of all the strings. He said to draw the structure of such a trie on paper. I got stuck because the trie of each sorted string can be created but not of the hash table, because then we can never be sure of the size of the trie. So I told him the same that now I\rquote ve understood after sorting all the strings we can create a trie which stores the frequency of all anagrams instead of making the trie of the hash table. He again asked me to draw the structure of the trie on the paper and tried to confuse me by saying that why are you declaring a fixed size memory of 256 at each level, why not declare memory as per need whenever a new character is inserted at any level. I told him then there will be no point of using a trie because although our memory consumption will be decreased by a great magnitude, we will now have to rely on searching the character at each level and hence the complexity for searching won\rquote t be O(n) anymore. He was satisfied.\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\sl240\slmult1 What is a deadlock and if detected then how can it be broken? What is stack and heap memory? I gave him basic answers of whatever I could recall at that point of time.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 In the end he asked me if I have any questions and I asked him whether if there is a better approach than tries for the 2nd question. He said no you have given good approaches for both the problems and that there is always some trade-off between memory and time.\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b Technical Round 3: (30-40 minutes)\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b0 The interviewer seemed to be impressed with my resume and told me that you have done a lot of coding on almost all the online judges. He then said you have also coded in the previous 2 rounds so I won\rquote t ask you to write a lot of code but just one question. I requested him to not to raise his expectations because of my previous exposure to programming to which he said no I will have more expectations from you.\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\sl240\slmult1 Find the longest palindromic substring in a string S.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\f3{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.facebook.com/groups/knuth.j128/#" HYPERLINK "http://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.geeksforgeeks.org%2Flongest-palindrome-substring-set-1%2F&h=zAQFwhxE3&enc=AZMTGTpIIMZiheGJRl7HgmlcAvKq96DUwGSTSgBbN7oVR4T5270CjNmkVn0X3MAJ_dqZxEZbrbaU17GgHIfkkITMliJy_k15C2DB60q3njt2DaSYW0Vw5sRg42o2HEOgtyqdGcRxnWjkpbErzeo4XjA1A_bXAZTydUxQXZiKZJNX-G-J7gqF9wM7CoM8nTPbu0w&s=1" }}{\fldrslt{\cf4\f0 http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/longest-palindrome-substring-set-1/\f0 }}}\cf1\f0\fs24\par
\f3{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.facebook.com/groups/knuth.j128/#" HYPERLINK "http://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.geeksforgeeks.org%2Flongest-palindrome-substring-set-2%2F&h=KAQE1zdfM&enc=AZMIlqH1c5mJwU-ou9Zwaa6spp13JV6TOcYUrOGXm39VPhLMJHjOCzLxq-EuGWa6wAREXzHAzrpzVb0K-p2OJdEo1RtxJP6Bj4iC7AozRLlCP7tPxI10r2Y9oK2x1US0RjKgpfMtjQRruxGtIiEdYiJ9ZVSOCHcvRi-WQ025SHk2kAirjKsJOfLcSWDrv4y9qgw&s=1" }}{\fldrslt{\cf4\f0 http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/longest-palindrome-substring-set-2/\f0 }}}\cf1\f0\fs24\par
\f3{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.facebook.com/groups/knuth.j128/#" }}{\fldrslt{}}}\f0\fs24\par
Soln: I was aware of the DP approach which I gave him. He asked about time and space complexities and asked can you do any better. I told him I can reduce the space complexity of this DP solution to O(n). He said can you do it in O(1) space? I told him I can try to do it with hashing. He asked me to explain more and I told him that I can calculate the hash of the string from left to right and right to left as well in a prefix sum manner and he said this will also require O(n) space no matter how you compare the hashes after this point. Then I asked him to give me 2 minutes I\rquote ll think of something and then finally came up with the approach in the 2nd link of considering each element as the middle element of the palindrome and then expanding it. My confidence improved after this because I wasn\rquote t aware of this approach before. He asked me to code it and he went through it and was satisfied.\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\sl240\slmult1 Some questions on OS: What is a deadlock? How to prevent it? (I told him this has been asked in the previous interview). How does disk writing take place? What are scheduling algorithms and why do we even need them in the first place? I told him that I had studied OS a long time back so I\rquote ll try to tell whatever I can from what I can recall. He seemed to be satisfied with my answers because though I was not aware of the exact terms like aging and starvation, I had explained these terms without actually referring to them.\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\sl240\slmult1 Lastly he said I\rquote ll give you a problem which you don\rquote t have to solve right now, just think about it later because it is a very cool application of computer science. It was basically the water trapping problem:\f3{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.facebook.com/groups/knuth.j128/#" HYPERLINK "http://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.geeksforgeeks.org%2Ftrapping-rain-water%2F&h=kAQFguX89&enc=AZPLe7ofyh318Q0gsS1c8GzTAq4val39XuElypz-3zAxqacyLJAvFtuazyuaryPhJ3q9xy2Xq5I4LY4dkVZVeVcyU2BnapkXK1wQ0i9Zx2xxsAPKc8eqGVXMcmQAaJ37u0V_zZQ3Ost8t1RYa9Vr02sSMa2U9XNxf3hmpf9nfCqcmt4o4m3x-n0yrwbUA4KehHQ&s=1" }}{\fldrslt{\cf4\f0 http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/trapping-rain-water/\f0 }}}\cf1\f0\fs24\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 I told him that I am aware of this problem and he said that this problem has been there in places where there are a lot of mountains since 25-30 years where the amount of fresh mountain water collected between adjacent mountain ranges is required to be calculated. He said that this is discussed very popularly these days since it can be easily converted to a programming problem and how computer science can be used to solved daily life problems. So this was basically more of a discussion instead of a problem solving session.\par
\par
Overall my experience was good because the interviewer was pretty cool about various things and the way he was cross questioning was really interesting. \f3\~\f0 In the end he asked me if I have any questions and I asked him about his work at Amazon and whether do we get any opportunities to write our own algorithms or not to which he said yes.\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b Technical Round 4: (60+ minutes)\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b0 The experience was amazing, quite literally. I felt that I have screwed this up totally, but it wasn\rquote t really so. Things got a lot better towards the end because I had finally delivered what the interviewer was asking.\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\sl240\slmult1 Some brief discussion of 2 of my projects.\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}This was the only question asked to me during the whole interview because it took me all the time to solve it. It isn\rquote t really a tough problem. Given a string S which has no spaces, tell whether it is a valid sentence or not. A sentence is valid if it is made up of valid words, and whether a specific substring of the S is a valid word or not can be checked using a function isValidWord(string) which has been already given to us.\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 Soln: I told him that this can be solved using DP because I had solved a similar problem on TopCoder once:\f3\~{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.facebook.com/groups/knuth.j128/#" HYPERLINK "http://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fcommunity.topcoder.com%2Fstat%3Fc%3Dproblem_statement%26pm%3D12155&h=OAQEJstkk&enc=AZP8rYH0TolN34wewyAt8bR5olHROdOGNmMMbwqJw4VVnC5WcvlKMjA5wcc2Vr_CgVq74S_lnKrPIlmiJR2DBISIdJG-Dz-2bBcEkJfoiwrxhNDG1qNzJo3yVdUUqkvgOpDhffYXyb_9CDSzXTdeEfw4vQ6J7ObxJTrnbBwnH9NzjbkKkXFMa6UKtnHXTELq6Ys&s=1" }}{\fldrslt{\cf4\f0 http://community.topcoder.com/stat?c=problem_statement&pm=12155\f0 }}}\cf1\f0\fs24\par
The problem is not same but the DP approaches are similar.\f3\~\f0\par
\par
This is also called the word break problem:\par
\f3{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.geeksforgeeks.org%2Fdynamic-programming-set-32-word-break-problem%2F&h=PAQG5xq2W&enc=AZPXoZ7aPyfSvKOEwslzheeWxKCaToO1vfuqbekArLzwvjvOXuwP6mJu_Y5VudGph6kufCpuHFq536G7k13MpvuwIAMCCw1haffmK-bfZZmYuhmPVWl-UWKKgD1KLUpjaV73xMQZVLCk24nC_uJrS2a9yIxteOHBq9TNIRcXhHAzGto2iL6V_6Lc-c5oCoabUa8&s=1" }}{\fldrslt{\cf4\f0 http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/dynamic-programming-set-32-word-break-problem/\f0 }}}\cf1\f0\fs24\par
\f3{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.programcreek.com%2F2012%2F12%2Fleetcode-solution-word-break%2F&h=cAQGsR2nu&enc=AZMaWDKhifetEcJkHIFobSk6EGJir5bqCIM5uEL8AD3J5N7NATZVjqjqHA693axAe_NPHPLoKy8wV2_m2gWU7MIAjWZKFnKKnkoCsN597CHEmp1B7HLL7hDHK8g1wCNxcJgoOnnDOjhQ9BqKj3bmDJofX6lRpJYAuM1Q2hxcnNWmgLqfQ3hnkUC6rAv6msLKrLw&s=1" }}{\fldrslt{\cf4\f0 http://www.programcreek.com/2012/12/leetcode-solution-word-break/\f0 }}}\cf1\f0\fs24\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 Now comes the twist: he did not actually want the DP solution, and when I gave him the approach he said why are you complicating it. I was a little shocked as to why he said that, he said don\rquote t think of DP and here too you are making a lot comparisons but I need a basic solution. I did not really understand what he meant by basic, then he said it involves no special data structure or no specific knowledge. He asked me to draw a recurrence relation and we brainstormed a lot. We both even started laughing when I told him that what kind of situation is this where I am unable to write the simpler approach to the problem whereas I can write the better DP solution. We actually did have a good laugh at this for sometime where he said that even having prior experience might go against you if you are directly reaching the optimal approach. He then finally gave me a hint that it is very inefficient and that the complexity is exponential and recursion is required. I first had thought of this but I don\rquote t know why I discarded the idea because I felt that this is not what he is asking. I then again started laughing and told him I totally got it now and then coded it. First I coded it in a not so good way because I had even eliminated the for loop in recursion for which I was passing an extra argument which he pointed out, but then I rectified it later and wrote a fresh code. He was satisfied but he said it took you so long to get to the brute force solution which I have been asking all this time. The good thing was, I did not give up at any point of time. I kept thinking and took my time to get there.\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 In between when I was solving the above question, he had a lot of time while I was thinking so he went through my complete resume properly. Lastly, he asked me if you have any questions then ask them. I asked basic questions about various technical departments at Amazon. I did tell him that this was a great interview experience for me and that I am never going to forget the final round and again we laughed off for a minute and that was it.\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\line\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b Suggestions:\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\b0\f2\fs20 1.\tab\f0\fs24 This is usually a misconception that you can crack Amazon by just preparing from GFG in the last week or so. Trust me, the more experience of programming you have, the better it is. The kind of on the spot instincts I got in my above interview experiences is only because of my previous exposure to competitive programming. It is then only when you can come up with a lot of approaches and get well versed with the time complexities. I started reading GFG 1-2 days before the test and before that I had practiced for some time on Interviewbit so that I could get acquainted with the use of pointers again.\par
\f2\fs20 2.\tab\f0\fs24 If you are very confident about your approach, just stick to it because the interviewer may try to confuse you.\par
\f2\fs20 3.\tab\f0\fs24 Take your time to think about the various approaches. The more clear you are, the better it would be during the discussion and coding phase.\par
\f2\fs20 4.\tab\f0\fs24 Don't give up if you are stuck or can't think of a good solution. Keep thinking of something or the other and keep interacting with the interviewer. He will himself give you hints to reach to the solution.\par
\f2\fs20 5.\tab\f0\fs24 Bug free codes with good variable names are expected in all the rounds.\par
\f2\fs20 6.\tab\f0\fs24 Practice practice and practice. There are no shortcuts to success. The more experience of participating in programming contests you have, the more easier it would be for you to write clean codes (and that too fast) during the interview. That will be all from my side. Good luck :)\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b Result\par
\b0 Selected: Yes\par
Position: FTE\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\f3\~\f0\par
\par
\b Ayush Jaggi (JIIT 128) - Kuliza - 3 rounds (all\f3\~\f0 elimination)\f3\~\f0\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 Online Round: (duration was 2 hrs I think)\par
Set I\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\b0\f2\fs20 1.\tab\f0\fs24 You are given a building in which there floors given in the form of 2 dimensions and these floors have rooms. These rooms are identified by 3 numbers (or dimensions) x1, y1, y2 and there are certain no of monsters in these rooms. The monsters decrease during the execution of the program and at any specific point of time you have to tell how many monsters are alive/dead on a given floor. In short, it was a basic hashing question (I don't exactly remember the question, but you just need to maintain hash table to answer the queries).\par
\f2\fs20 2.\tab\f0\fs24 I don't remember the story of the question, but ultimately we had to find the minimum value in all the rows of a matrix. Sounds pretty easy but the story required you to interpret the question properly and convert it into the above explanation.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard\sb240\sl240\slmult1\b Telephonic Round 1: (around 45-60 minutes)\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\b0\f2\fs20 1.\tab\cf5\f4\fs22 Brief introduction about myself followed by some discussion on one of my projects.\par
\cf1\f2\fs20 2.\tab\cf5\f4\fs22 Given two unsorted liked lists, write a program which gives a single sorted list which consists of the elements of both the lists. She asked me about how will I go about solving it, why I used this approach (I used merge sort and she wanted an explanation for why I chose it) and whether I will first merge the two lists and then sort the resultant list or will I sort the individual lists and then merge them. She then finally asked me to code and she hung up the phone so that she could look at my code as I typed it. She kept calling me in between to ask me the purpose of each function and any specific part of the code which she did not understand. She asked me to format my code properly (she typed this in the shared document itself). I was able to explain everything properly and she seemed to be happy with my reasoning. I told her that that my code will be having bugs because usually most of the codes don't run in the first go and especially this one because it has a lot of movement of pointers She said that's okay and she just wanted to see my approach and check how fast I can code it (she wanted the concepts to be very clear).\~{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.geeksforgeeks.org%2Fmerge-sort-for-linked-list%2F&h=VAQG-9Upx&enc=AZO8ikXYR25wtK0XM3mEu_NhAwjGPZ2MjSm0RHlETv1Q9La9JkmHOBG2p8uSQ2T9n0KtgGY3NkQ6LZH9a-ovOWzm2D-9YaNdJ9NGM0xlTooD4TzJ19ka0UDZLybzLu02IFZO31iSuCYi3VQaAvR45A6TXszyYtBHlW6WRAd_PBiBjL1CrKBXaCq35u40PabO8FA&s=1" }}{\fldrslt{\cf4 http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/merge-sort-for-linked-list/}}}\cf5\f4\fs22\par
\cf1\f2\fs20 3.\tab\cf5\f4\fs22 I was asked a puzzle: You are given a finite rectangular table of unknown dimensions and infinite no of coins, there are two players who place these coins one by one on the table \~(you cannot place a coin on top of another). The player who cannot place a coin on the table loses. Given that you have the first turn, devise a strategy such that you will always win the game. I was confused because I was always interpreting the table as a matrix with cells, so I told her initially that it seems impossible without knowing the dimensions of the matrix because I need to know whether the total no of cells are odd or even. She said no you're not approaching it in the right way and told me to forget about cells on the table. She said she never mentioned about cells in the question and then after some thinking I was able to solve it and she seemed satisfied.\~{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fpuzzling.stackexchange.com%2Fquestions%2F2534%2Fcoins-on-a-table&h=8AQHcxxV0&enc=AZNjuAx2voq-4F8pm8i0YPW2Hvm4NG1x5zQaKpZOyKiGP2PwiDcfKo7PRWWmdpttY4SPVGo5p4WKmNHliopvWRQumBVSGJx5dJE89v3bAI7x7lbqaYkOPDLaFJmXLNJtWTpI1pWTYeNMqRsUMidV7nKxg73fm2-_MjwYo7uOCkS2GwEGfCYM1jzHzqnxYZP_k84&s=1" }}{\fldrslt{\cf4 http://puzzling.stackexchange.com/questions/2534/coins-on-a-table}}}\cf5\f4\fs22\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b Telephonic Round 2: (around 30 minutes)\par
\par
\b0 I got the 2nd call after lunch and though it is supposed to be a technical round, it seemed more like a HR round. The interviewer said that I've gone through your resume and asked me that since I have done a lot of coding, he wanted to know whether there are any specific programming communities in JIIT or not. I told him yes there are dedicated programming groups in JIIT and the activity/no of genuinely interested members who are enthusiastic about programming varies each year. He then asked me whether I was self motivated or whether there were seniors whom I looked up to which got me into programming. I told him that I was interested in programming from the time when I was in school so I was self motivated but when I came to JIIT, I saw that some seniors were actively involved in programming which gave me a further boost. I asked him why was he asking all of this and he said that he has got some really nice resumes from JIIT and the current employees who are from our college are doing pretty well there. He even said that there are some JIITians who are doing better than the IITians, hence he was curious to know about this.\par
\par
\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\cf1\f2\fs20 1.\tab\cf5\f4\fs22 Again this was more of a conversation only, he asked me to describe a question which I had solved recently with which I had some trouble initially but after giving it some time, I was able to solve it successfully. He asked me where did I get stuck and why and then how I was able to solve it. I told him about one of the questions from CodeChef long challenge ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.facebook.com/l.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.codechef.com%2Fproblems%2FADDMUL&h=1AQGy_oT2&enc=AZNbDTPVMPxx0P2EW-6vkKkHvNKrPZu1mbFXpUFZYiXtAamrqasXdJY9lJkgmQVe_ExjeRdj4g5AH6Nd7V-YqxdWZTvz6JPgSs0jWi2yuZynq3K5ddsQ3qdEVUCvw7y37wrhvWs5-E0FnSZmVp4bhDIHERp2GPpb0yfRyg2OH_8UdPNxzOvpHguWtOLz5bFVY1k&s=1" }}{\fldrslt{\cf4 https://www.codechef.com/problems/ADDMUL}}}\cf5\f4\fs22 ) which required the concept of segment trees with lazy propagation and though I was aware of the concept and had successfully used it to solve a question earlier, I still got stuck in this one because it was a pretty good question and required deep understanding of the working of lazy propagation. I gave him a brief insight about lazy propagation because he was not aware about it. I explained him the question properly and told him the difference between normal segment trees and the ones with lazy propagation. Then I told him that I was getting WA and was missing out on a small case where I was not properly trickling down the updates on the tree and the moment I realized my mistake (took me a day or two), I corrected it and without even testing it (because I was confident that the rest of the code was correct) I just submitted it and it got AC. He wanted to know where I was stuck and how I proceeded then.\par
\cf1\f2\fs20 2.\tab\cf5\f4\fs22 Given 5 unsorted arrays each consisting of 5 elements, you need to find out the 3 largest no's out of all the 25 no's. I told him that I will build a max heap in O(n) time and then do extract max three times. He said that okay this is one way but you can only use sorting and that too you can only sort an array which consists of exactly 5 elements. Then he asked me how many sort operations of this type will be required to find the 3 largest elements. I gave him the correct answer with explanation and this was the only technical question asked to me during the complete round.\~{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.programmerinterview.com%2Findex.php%2Fpuzzles%2F25-horses-3-fastest-5-races-puzzle%2F&h=SAQF_9ba_&enc=AZPBRTujkXYecXUnzg41zlyiLbnst8_pstZ4KRueAmXb4Is8MYBzGTnY87c2sBkPGV7VDEsWAJ1HaRYvHOTO8Rf4QgcGgJ9Rag2M6_zFTMZ73xof-WaCBsD7ckIQypwPVd91kWYG9iyGeOQz61MTzhXpwQD2lJzxTdQY9t7trOuhEU_ERf91vY3a52tov6696W4&s=1" }}{\fldrslt{\cf4 http://www.programmerinterview.com/index.php/puzzles/25-horses-3-fastest-5-races-puzzle/}}}\cf5\f4\fs22\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\b Result\par
\b0 Selected: Yes\par
\par
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
\b Ayush Jaggi (JIIT 128) - Grofers (4 rounds)\par
\par
Nobody was selected from JIIT (same goes for Zomato).\par
\par
Round I (Puzzles):\~\b0 We were given 4 puzzles to solve:\~\par
\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\cf1\f2\fs20 1.\tab\cf5\f4\fs22 Use 6 matchsticks to make exactly 4 equilateral triangles:\~{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.learning-tree.org.uk%2FphpBB3%2Fviewforum.php%3Ff%3D24%26sid%3D8a8cfa63868e6095c32de27964374e9f&h=5AQFETWgW&enc=AZO0e8_gU2DxLQ0qWZiQ9sq2ceSXwXXKYcOjqsbhozRXuNaifOdOmsUqIYHywfF97gKtihSVSN5KACM2v72BJKvZgGJGdxeX4-G4wiv1WaChF_ZQPRh12cMEEMMn_KPIKIq5xahaq6QOvqgQGPyDT6Gl0IHu9HgRdL8A8D0l7Yr62lDLtA8qunX0j-wHc_rPFRE&s=1" }}{\fldrslt{\cf4 http://www.learning-tree.org.uk/phpBB3/viewforum.php?f=24&sid=8a8cfa63868e6095c32de27964374e9f}}}\cf5\f4\fs22\par
\cf1\f2\fs20 2.\tab\cf5\f4\fs22 Red Hat Blue Hat Puzzle:\~\cf0 http://puzzles.nigelcoldwell.co.uk/thirtynine.htm\cf5\par
\cf1\f2\fs20 3.\tab\cf5\f4\fs22 You're walking along the sides of a pentagon and decide to move away from it by walking in a straight line path and to infinite distance. You stop and turn around. What is the probability that you see 2 (or 3, I don't exactly remember) sides of the pentagon?\par
\cf1\f2\fs20 4.\tab\cf5\f4\fs22 Don't remember.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 Everyone had to appear for the next round irrespective of their performance in the puzzle round.\par
\par
\b Technical Round I (around 30 minutes):\~\b0 I was given a design problem. Suppose you're developing the Grofers app and there are a lot of multiple requests being submitted to the app simultaneously. You don't want the server to hang in such a case, the database should be able serve all the requests without any hiccups. The server should not crash, and in case if it does, how will you ensure there is no loss of data etc. He asked me to jot down all the points on a paper, as elaborately as I could and asked me to focus on the need for scaling. He said customer experience must be smooth and it is the top most priority, so one bad experience can lead to the loss of a customer. He gave me some time and then discussed all the points which I had written.\par
\par
7 students were shortlisted on the basis of 1st interview. They were called to the Grofers office for the final interview(s).\par
\par
\b Technical Round II (60+ minutes):\~\b0 This was one of the longest and one of the best interview experiences I'vr had till date. I was asked a lot of things, like literally questions from almost all the topics. I really enjoyed this interview.\par
\par
\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\cf1\f2\fs20 1.\tab\cf5\f4\fs22 A brief introduction about myself. Then I was given a situation based question: suppose I am given an API which tells me whether a specific item is located in a store or not. It takes a few minutes to return the result and then accordingly the request is processed. What can I do in the mean-time while the API is taking it's time to return the availability of a particular product? And how do I make sure fast delivery of the item (basically the item should come from the nearest store)?\par
\cf1\f2\fs20 2.\tab\cf5\f4\fs22 What happens when you press Ctrl+Alt+Del on Linux? I told her that though I use Ubuntu, I haven't tried it. So I don't know.\par
\cf1\f2\fs20 3.\tab\cf5\f4\fs22 The blind man and coins puzzle:\~{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fmath.stackexchange.com%2Fquestions%2F659481%2Fthe-blind-man-and-coins-puzzle&h=XAQFPTKg6&enc=AZO7AfMtsDJ9KGc7d_yjq7qj9J13asPc1TgRHeRmLNsYTwSIaiZITKP4XWrhvZqwHtqD7vMP6nV2LLVyWoRof29aCblK5JCQVyoqEEM0G6ayleAIG9OrPHkq2IKeWc9NDO5TwXgJagP7Jn2lzyqfPNIX3EuOJ5SXe8PVHMGvo_boorqAywDHmjT4tCPJEpdprhw&s=1" }}{\fldrslt{\cf4 http://math.stackexchange.com/questions/659481/the-blind-man-and-coins-puzzle}}}\cf5\f4\fs22\line I gave her a solution on the basis of hit and trial and though it was working in all the cases we checked, she said she wants a solution on the basis of some logical reasoning. Took me few minutes but was finally able to crack it. Though she did say that the hit and trial solution I gave was something new to her and she wasn't expecting it.\~\par
\cf1\f2\fs20 4.\tab\cf5\f4\fs22 She asked me something about Windows DOS, I told her I don't know. Then she asked me if I'm having the cryptography course in my college to which I said no.\par
\cf1\f2\fs20 5.\tab\cf5\f4\fs22 Find all possible interpretations of a string:\~{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.geeksforgeeks.org%2Ffind-all-possible-interpretations%2F&h=KAQE1zdfM&enc=AZP2d35Qw--dPNJLEkM1xyzJjypidNp0F5kvxyzzjQ_xRBr6IjJ-bzFzhUnStWXkpd4NfaFr-i3_tVvV_3M8vTjlwV3urr9hRQGmq57a_ZqYrvZRUHiqGrqPSOA4md1tdZBoeMHpIvVmsT0iXj6sSWyHKLVhZDdSdBkMdruBUX6QPlbU7MeiAMp3XZ6kuGaKmKs&s=1" }}{\fldrslt{\cf4 http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-all-possible-interpretations/}}}\cf5\f4\fs22\line She only asked me to find the no of interpretations and not list them, so I did not use a tree and instead simply used DP and arrays. She seemed to be satisfied with the approach and asked me to code it.\par
\cf1\f2\fs20 6.\tab\cf5\f4\fs22 I can't recall any more questions right now, will add them if I'm able to remember them later.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\b Technical Interview III (around 30 minutes):\~\b0 This was the final interview and it was with the CTO of Grofers.\~\par
\par
\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\cf1\f2\fs20 1.\tab\cf5\f4\fs22 What are the possible ways to detect a loop in a linked list?\~{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.geeksforgeeks.org%2Fwrite-a-c-function-to-detect-loop-in-a-linked-list%2F&h=fAQGRX-xS&enc=AZNFjhenM4zhQ5v0XnzkMBnQRfjNjJQnlZtfFGP6YYz69HOAqTSr-Qzev5mqjn_OLqE-hFp64ul-gtuLDX1kwhCqaS4W_ohAf_cj_Bvd0i83Gr_ljgipBX5Fu6s8zb_Gi4mEf8ei9TuW1xRmSCf6JJNOPHebqx417LJu2P0S1zUXSo39entftvz92ZcqvuTxZdo&s=1" }}{\fldrslt{\cf4 http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/write-a-c-function-to-detect-loop-in-a-linked-list/}}}\cf5\f4\fs22\line I have him two ways: one to make a hash table for the addresses of the nodes of the linked list and the other to using the Floyd's cycle finding algorithm. He asked me to code both of them and I did it quickly. He asked me for the 1st approach that why have I declared a single big array for the hashing purpose. He said this will consume too much memory and if I can reduce the size of the hash table. I told him that though it takes a lot of memory, the complexity will be O(n) for this approach because of constant time access to the hash table. I told him that if I reduce the size of the hash table then there will be a memory-time trade off. He then asked me for a 2D hash table and I told him that I've understood how you want me to decrease the memory consumption. I told him that if I use a 2D hash table then there will be scope for collisions and again as I said in order to avoid such collisions it will take some more processing which will increase the time. So again it will be a trade off to which he agreed. He then asked me the complexity of the second method.\par
\cf1\f2\fs20 2.\tab\cf5\f4\fs22 Final question: give me a mathematical formula of where the slow and fast pointers will meet for the first time in the Floyd's cycle finding algorithm. I told him that my math is little weak but I'll try. He gave me a small hint that it will be modulo something and I said that i'll work on it. I finally gave him two formulas for two different cases and he said that you can combine them into one formula only but anyway. Then he checked the formulas and said that you're almost correct but not completely there.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f5\par
}
 